[Term Entry] Python Plotly - Figure Factory: `.create_dendrogram()` (#6224)
Codecademy/docs: content/plotly/concepts/figure-factory/terms/create-dendogram/create-dendogram.md

---
Title: '.create_dendrogram()'
Description: 'Generates a hierarchical cluster tree to visualize relationships between data points.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  - 'Histograms'
  - 'NumPy'
  - 'Plotly'
  - 'Python'
  - 'Seaborn'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.create_dendrogram()`** function in Plotly's `figure_factory` module generates hierarchical cluster trees (dendrograms) for visualizing the arrangement of data clusters. It is useful in hierarchical clustering applications, such as bioinformatics and machine learning, to depict relationships between data points.

## Syntax

```pseudo
import plotly.figure_factory as ff

dendrogram = ff.create_dendrogram(
    X,
    orientation="bottom",
    labels=None,
    colorscale="Viridis",
    distfun=None,
    linkagefun=None,
    hovertext=None
)
```

**Parameters**:

- **`X`**: A matrix-like 2D list or NumPy array containing the data to be clustered.
- **`orientation`** (default="bottom"): Specifies the orientation of the dendrogram (`'top'`, `'bottom'`, `'left'`, or `'right'`).

> - **`labels`** (optional): A list of labels for the data points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`labels`** (optional): A list of labels for the data points. If `None`, default labels `(0, 1, 2,...)` are used.
```

- **`colorscale`** (default="Viridis"): Determines the color scale used for branch coloring.

> - **`distfun`** (default=`scipy.spatial.distance.pdist`): A function to compute pairwise distances between observations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`distfun`** (default=`scipy.spatial.distance.pdist`): A function to compute pairwise distances between data points.
```
Use consistent nomenclature.
